---
layout: post
title: Art Of Data, Lab 1 Write-Up
subtitle: Each post also has a subtitle
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
# gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [test]
comments: true
---

## Question 1

#### Finding the average speed of all Digimon

```python
def averagespeed():
    with open("digimon.csv", "r") as f:
        data = csv.DictReader(f)
        total = 0
        digimon_count = 0
        for pokemon in data:
            total += float(pokemon['Spd'])
            digimon_count+=1
    return total/digimon_count
```

We encountered something similar to this question with the penguin.csv exercise, so I knew that we had to iterate through the list of dictionaries, sum up all the speed values, and divide that by the total number of digimon.

While I did not allow this function to be universal for any attribute of a digimon, I could do so by making the attribute in question a paremeter of the function.

---

## Question 2

#### Identify the number of Digimon with a specic attribute

```python
def getcount(column_name,specific_trait):
    with open("digimon.csv", "r") as f:
        data = csv.DictReader(f)
        finaldict = {}
        for pokemon in data:
            attribute = pokemon[column_name]
            if attribute not in finaldict:
                finaldict[attribute] = 0
            finaldict[attribute] += 1
    return finaldict[specific_trait]
```

We are taking in two parameters in this function. The column name, such as "Type", as well as the specific characteristic that we are trying to identify, such as "Vaccine." So we are extracting the specific characteristic for each row, and if that characteristic is not yet a key in our dictionary, we add it, and increase the number of times is shows up by 1. By the end, we have a table that looks like this:

|         | # of occurences |
| :------ | :-------------- |
| Vaccine | 10              |
| Free    | 12              |
| Data    | 15              |
| Virus   | 35              |

We then return the row of this table with the same name as our second parameter.

---

## Question 3

#### Find three digimon that have a memory of less than 15 and an Attack greater than 300

```python
def bestteam():
    with open("digimon.csv", "r") as f:
        data = list(csv.DictReader(f))
        listofteams = []
        for a in range(0,len(data)):
            for b in range(a+1,len(data)):
                for c in range(b+1,len(data)):
                    totalatk = float(data[a]['Atk'])+float(data[b]['Atk'])+float(data[c]['Atk'])
                    totalmemory = float(data[a]['Memory'])+float(data[b]['Memory'])+float(data[c]['Memory'])
                    if totalatk >= 300 and  totalmemory<= 15:
                        specific_team = [data[a]['Digimon'],data[b]['Digimon'],data[c]['Digimon']]
                    else:
                        continue
                    if len(specific_team) == len(set(specific_team)):
                        listofteams.append(specific_team)
    return listofteams
```

I definitely had the toughest time with this question. While my solution does work universally, and returns every combination rather than just one, the code is not very efficient. There is definitely a better solution that doesn't require iterating through every single combination in the dataset, and the program would take longer with larger datasets.

I did not really have a clear idea of how to start, but I started by iterating through the each row without considering atk. This obviously printed out the first three rows. I would only include rows if the total number of rows was <= 3, and totalmemory<=15. This didn't really solve anything, so after asking Mr. Lee, I tried to sort of "hard code" it so that I could at least get three digimon. If you have three numbers and you want the sum to be greater than 300, at least one of the 3 numbers must have a value greater than 100. So as another filter, I included this in my if statement. I was able to a return three digimon that filled the specic requirements, but I was not satisfied with this approach.

Through thinking of other ideas other than what I am submitting, I though of possibly finding random combinations of 3 rows until something worked, but we couldn't use any other libraries, and this may have taken even longer if there was only one possible combination in a dataset.

I settled by trying to return every combination. To prevent repeats inside each three-team list, the bottom of our range is (the previous index + 1). This makes sure that for each triplet, the second and third digimon always moves one row down compared to the previous digimon. Making sure each triplet is unique also allows the program to take less time and power.

---
