---
layout: post
title: Art Of Data, Lab 2 Write-Up
subtitle: By Avi Kumar
gh-repo: daattali/beautiful-jekyll
# gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [test]
comments: true
---

## Question 1

#### Discuss how you used the API to obtain the dataset.

In order to find the csv file, we need to call our api on an index that increases over and over. In other words, we want out index to start at 0, and as long as our index is in range, and as long as there are no other errors, we want to call out api over and over as our index increases.

I defined three variables, the base url, the endpoint, and the API key. The API key is part of my payload, and we are essentially combining the base url and the endpint. We call the api from index 0, just so that we have an initial response, then we call the API starting from index 1 and increasing the index by 1 after each call. By the end, the code returns the text of each row for as many rows as there are before we get an "index out of range" error.

We then take our results and store it in a csv.

#### Which sock has the most variations? If there is more than one answer, then list all of them.

I knew I wanted my table to have each sock variety and the number of socks with that variety, so the first for loop accomplishes that by creating a new key if the specific variation does not yet exist in my dictionary, and then adding 1 no matter what to that variation.

max() only returns one key, so I set that key to ogmax. I then get the value of that key. In this case ogmax is 8. The while loop basically says, "While there are more keys with 8 pairs of socks, keep adding them to a separate list then delete them from our original list." At some point `varsdict[max(varsdict, key=varsdict.get)]` will no longer be 8.

#### How many socks of each color are there? If a sock has two different colors, it should be counted in both. However, if a sock has the same Color1 and Color2, make sure you don’t double count it!
